# healthcareapplication
Automatic osteoporotic vertebral fracture analysis and identification by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry
Vertebral column plays a vital role in the human body, which protects the spinal cord, gives hardening to the body and connects muscles of the human body. Human vertebral also transmits body weight in strolling and standing, but under a few conditions, human vertebral fracture occurs which cause damage in the progression of the vertebral bone. Vertebral fractures mainly occur due to injury or disease that weakens the bones and have a high impact on human health. Osteoporosis, is the most common disease to cause a vertebral fracture. Osteoporosis increases the risk to sustain a vertebral fracture and debilitate the vertebral column without any major indications. Osteoporosis is not diagnosed with conventional radiography techniques until 20 - 40 % of bone mass has been lost. Vertebral fractures are classified as wedge, biconcave, or a crush fracture. This system “Automatic osteoporotic vertebral fracture analysis and identification by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry” is basically a desktop application which is mainly targeted for hospitals and medical laboratories where Instant Vertebral assessment is done by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry. This application will not only reduce the workload of technicians performing tests but also of patients who has to wait for the reports for a long period of time. The application is made in such a way that a technician who wants to detect vertebral fracture not only can perform the test but can also view the results by detecting fracture types of lumbar spine vertebras
